---
layout: post
title: Watir 1.6.6 RC2 is out
date: 2010-10-01 12:50
author: bpettichord
comments: true
categories: [1.6.6, Firewatir, Releases, Watir]
---
Hello (fire)watirists!

We are happy to announce that a (very) long-waited (Fire)Watir
1.6.6.rc2 is out! Please grab it now.

Changes from rc1 include:
<ul>
	<li> A main README.rdoc file (Zeljko)</li>
	<li> Unit test fixes for Firewatir (Zeljko)</li>
	<li>Ability to run unit tests from gems (Jarmo)</li>
	<li> Additional unit test and bug fixes (Jarmo)</li>
</ul>
You can check out the full changelog at
<ul>
	<li> http://github.com/bret/watir/blob/master/CHANGES</li>
</ul>
Make sure your local gem system is up to date.

[sourcecode language="ruby"]

gem update --system
run gem -v at the command line, you should be running 1.3.7

gem install (fire)watir --pre

[/sourcecode]

Note: If you're installing on Mac or Linux you'll want to use
firewatir for the gem install.
...and give it a go. Try to use it with your existing test suites and
so on to see if there are any issues.

If there are any problems then:
<ol>
	<li> Fix it and send a pull request on Github, our main github repo: http://github.com/bret/watir This is the preferred way of accepting patches, we're happy to work with you on how to do this, github also has extensive docs on how to fork and submit a pull request.</li>
	<li> Add it to our JIRA tracker: http://jira.openqa.org/browse/WTR</li>
	<li> If you need help with that let us know.</li>
</ol>
With your help, we will be getting out a final version of 1.6.6 shortly and working on continuously rolling out releases on a quick timeline. We already have actions lined up for 1.6.7 which should be released fairly quickly as we make our way through the current tickets and changes and roll them into releases.

If you do have time and can help, please let us know, we can take any help from documentation to running tests on various OSes. We're a
friendly project and would be happy to mentor you if you and/or your company is willing to put in the time.

Cheers,
Charley &amp; Jarmo
