---
layout: post
title: Watir 6.0
date: 2016-10-16
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: http://watirtight.com/
comments: true
categories: [Releases]
---

Watir 6.0 is now available on rubygems! Watir 6.0 is entirely implemented
with Selenium 3.0, and has several new features.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", "~> 6.0.0"
{% endhighlight %}

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/master/CHANGES.md) 
for a complete list of updates.

Since Watir 6.0 Beta 5 there have been two significant additions.

# Watirspec repository deprecated
It is now much easier to write tests and submit Pull Requests!
The specs have been added to the Watir repository directly. The 
previous implementation with a git submodule has always made 
synchronizing changes between code and new tests difficult.

# Automatic Waits
A more thorough explanation surrounding the reasons for this change can
be found on this 
[Watirtight Testing post](http://watirtight.com/2016/10/13/wait-in-the-watir.html).

This feature helps synchronize test code with the website by making
additional effort to type the things and click the things written in
the tests. If your test times have increased significantly, take a look at
[the Watir 6 FAQ](/watir-6-faq/#H).

# Updated Wait methods

`#when_present` is gone, and #wait_until and #wait_while have gotten
more powerful. 

You shouldn't need when present, but if you do, you can use the new
implementation of `#wait_until_present`, which returns the object
being waited for to allow for use in chaining.

Here are some examples of the ways that the new `#wait_until` and
`#wait_while` methods can be used:

{% highlight ruby %}
Element#wait_until(&:present?).text
Element#wait_until(timeout: 5, &:present?).text
Element#wait_until(message: “Sorry”, &:present?)
Element#wait_while { |el| el.text == ‘foo’ }
Element#wait_while { element.text == ‘foo’ }
{% endhighlight %}
