---
layout: post
title: Watigiri
date: 2017-09-07
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: http://watirtight.com/
comments: true
tags: [Addons]
---

The initial version of the [Watigiri gem](https://github.com/titusfortner/watigiri) has 
just been released. Watigiri is an add-on to Watir that allows actions to be taken using 
[Nokogiri](https://github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri) (an HTML parser that uses 
native C or Java libraries) instead of Selenium in the places it makes sense to do so.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watigiri
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watigiri", "~> 0.2"
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>


### Text Bang

The major feature of **Watigiri** is `Watir::Element#text!`. A common pattern in testing is to verify that the 
information that was entered into a form has correctly been sent to a view or list page.
Rather than making several dozen wire calls to locate and obtain text information from each, 
you can make a single wire call to obtain the DOM and then quickly locate and obtain all of 
the information necessary at each element location.

The most important distinction between `Element#text!` and `Element#text` is that `#text!`
returns what is in the DOM regardless of whether the text is actually visible (present)
on the page. So if the element being present on the page matters, do not use `#text!`.

Also of note, **Watigiri** automatically flushes the cached DOM whenever a user takes an 
action that might have changed the DOM (clicks, navigations, etc). 
So the performance improvement will only come with the number of successive calls
 of `#text!` before taking other actions. 
 
### Regular Expression Location

Watir supports using a `Regexp` for all locators that accept a `String`.
Watir implements this by locating a subset of elements that might be a match and 
then making wire calls on each of those to check if they actually match the provided 
regular expression. With **Watigiri**, iterating through this list of potentially
matching elements is done using Nokogiri. Depending on the DOM and the kind
of regular expression, this can be a small or slighly less small performance improvement.

### Additional Features and Support

**Watigiri** is still effectively in Beta and the implementation and the the method names might
change (for reasons). There are a number of other potential features that will be tracked
in the [Watigiri Issue Tracker](https://github.com/titusfortner/watigiri/issues). Please add
additional feature requests or issues you find with this gem. Support for and discussion
 about this gem can be found in the #watir channel of [Selenium Slack](http://seleniumhq.herokuapp.com).