---
layout: post
title: Watir 6.7 Released!
date: 2017-08-14
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: http://watirtight.com/
comments: true
categories: [Releases]
---

Watir 6.7.0 is now available on RubyGems! A bunch of new features.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", "~> 6.7"
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>


### HTML5.1 and SVG2 Support
There have been some bugs and inconsistencies with these features, but they
have been addressed in this release.

Watir now parses the latest official W3C HTML & SVG standards to automatically 
generate Element classes with their officially supported attributes.

These can be used for both element location and obtaining attribute values in a
properly encapsulated fashion:

{% highlight ruby %}
element = browser.text_field(tabindex: '1')
element.tabindex
# => 1
{% endhighlight %}

Non-standard attributes for elements can still be located and returned with:

{% highlight ruby %}
element = browser.div(css: "div[notstandard='foo']")
element.attribute_value('notstandard')
# => 'foo'
{% endhighlight %}
<br />

### Table Features

Working with tables can be a challenge. Often it is easy enough to get the
Table cell you need, but have to interact with elements in relation to it.
Here are two useful ways to make this easier:

{% highlight ruby %}
# Get the title of the first row for the located cell
cell_name = browser.td(text: "John Smith")
cell_name.column_header
# => "Full Name"

# Interact with a sibling cell based on the header
cell_name.sibling_from_header(text: "Opted In").checkbox.click
{% endhighlight %}
<br />

### Iterating with Elements
 
Some elements can in some respects be considered Collections.
* `OList` and `UList` each effectively have a collection of `LI`
* `Table` effectively has a collection of `TableRow`
* `TableRow` effectively has a collection of `TableCell`

Now you can iterate over them as if they were a collection like:

{% highlight ruby %}
browser.ol(id: 'countries').each(&:text)
# => ['USA', 'Canada', 'France']
{% endhighlight %}
<br />

### Siblings

`Element#siblings` returns an `HTMLCollection` of all of the elements that are
direct children of the calling element's parent. Note that the element
calling this method is included in the results. As with all adjacent methods,
this method accepts a hash that will filter the results by any valid Watir locator.
<br />
<br />

### Original Window

We can have long debates about this, and you are free to disagree, 
but I am not a fan of using Ruby blocks when they are merely
used to manage a simple order of code execution 
(as opposed to using it to reference variables not defined until the 
context of the calling method).

To switch to a window, take an action, and return to the original 
window you can currently:
{% highlight ruby %}
browser.window(title: 'Foo').use do |browser| 
  do_the_things
end

# or
original_window = browser.window.handle
browser.window(title: 'Foo').use
do_the_things
browser.window(handle: original_window).use
{% endhighlight %}

With this update you can now use a second window procedurally without having to
explicitly store a variable:
{% highlight ruby %}
browser.window(title: 'Foo').use
do_the_things
browser.original_window.use
{% endhighlight %}
<br />

### Stealing From the Page Object Gem

While going through Cheezy's updated [Page Object gem](https://github.com/cheezy/page-object), I found a number of 
features that deserve be included directly in Watir. If you already
use `page-object.gem`, you likely won't see anything new from this.

* `Checkbox` `#set`, `#set?`, and `#clear` can now be handled with `#check`, `#checked?` and `#uncheck` respectively
* `Element#attribute_value` can now be accessed with `Element#attribute` (also like Selenium)
* Added support for `Element` `#scroll_into_view`, `#location`, `#size`, `#height`, `#width` and `#center`/`#centre`
* `Radio` `#set` and `#set` can now be handled with `#select` and `#selected?` respectively  
<br />

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/master/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.

