---
layout: post
title: Watir 6.6 Released!
date: 2017-08-01
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: http://watirtight.com/
comments: true
categories: [Releases]
---

Watir 6.6.0 is now available on RubyGems! We've added several more exciting features.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", "~> 6.6"
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

### Watir Capabilities

It has long frustrated me that if I want to run Watir on a remote server that 
I have to initialize long and often unnecessary Selenium classes:

{% highlight ruby %}
caps = Selenium::WebDriver::Remote::Capabilities.chrome
client = Selenium::WebDriver::Remote::Http::Default.new
client.timeout = 120
url = "http://localhost:4444/wd/hub"

Watir::Browser.new :remote, {desired_capabilities: caps, http_client: client, url: url}
{% endhighlight %}

No more! You never have to specify `:remote` again. Watir will treat it as 
remote if you are passing in a URL.

The above code can now be accomplished with:

{% highlight ruby %}
Watir::Browser.new :chrome, {timeout: 120, url: "http://localhost:4444/wd/hub"}
{% endhighlight %}

If you add options when using `Selenium::WebDriver::Remote::Capabilities`, you can
now pass them in as part of the Watir options.

{% highlight ruby %}
caps = Selenium::WebDriver::Remote::Capabilities.chrome(opts)
Watir::Browser.new :remote, {desired_capabilities: caps}
{% endhighlight %}

can be done as this:

{% highlight ruby %}
Watir::Browser.new :remote, opts
{% endhighlight %}


As a special bonus, we've also implemented direct support for Chrome's new headless mode:

{% highlight ruby %}
Watir::Browser.new :chrome, headless: true
{% endhighlight %}

*Note: Chrome Headless still struggles with things like alerts and window switching, but for basic
functionality it is working well. Also, headless is only supported on Chrome > 60.*

<br />

### Adjacent Element Locators

In Watir 6.2 we introduced [Adjacent Element Location](http://watir.com/watir-6-2/#adjacent-element-location),
but we only implemented it with `:tag_name` and `:index` locators:

{% highlight ruby %}
grandparent_table = browser.table.parent(tag_name: 'table', index: 1)
{% endhighlight %}

In this release we've made it so you can now use any Watir supported locator as a parameter
in your adjacent methods:

{% highlight ruby %}
browser.table.parent(tag_name: 'div', class: ['a', '!b'], text: /foo/, index: 1)
{% endhighlight %}
<br />

### Select Lists

Select lists have been refactored to make fewer wire calls, so you might see some performance
improvements if you work with Select Lists that have a large number of options.

Currently `Select#select` iterates through every single option to see if the option matches the 
provided value. This is because some Select Lists are capable of selecting multiple
options. Since this requires a huge number of wire calls that are unnecessary for most use cases,
we are deprecating the use of `#select` for multiselect Select Lists. It is still supported,
but it will throw a deprecation notice. We've implemented `Select#select_all` for you to convert to
if you want to select multiple options in a given Select List. This is setting us up for additional
performance gains when we move to Watir 7.0 and remove support for things that have been deprecated.

<br />

### Watir Logger!

This is "very similar" to the recently implemented `Selenium::WebDriver::Logger` class.
You can specify an output other than STDOUT with:

`Watir.logger.output = 'watir.log'`

By default the level is set to `:warn` so you will see deprecation notices and 
any warning messages.

To also see details on each element interaction set the level to info:

`Watir.logger.level = :info`

To also see what Watir is doing when it converts the selector hash into an XPath, set
the level to debug:

 `Watir.logger.level = :debug`
 
If you have suggestions on what other things you might want to see exposed in Watir Logs,
please let us know. 

<br />

### Other Features
* You can use these methods to minimize the need to call `ElementCollection#to_a`
  * `ElementCollection#locate`
  * `ElementCollection#empty?`
  * `ElementCollection#any?`
* Added support to relocate elements that are created with `Element#to_subtype`
* Added support to locate buttons with `type` attribute (Thanks Justin Ko)

<br />

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/master/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.

