---
layout: post
title: Watir 6.8 Released!
date: 2017-08-29
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: http://watirtight.com/
comments: true
tags: [Releases]
---

Watir 6.8.0 is now available on RubyGems! Several new features including new methods to increase performance.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", "~> 6.8"
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>


### Bang Methods

Drivers are slow when it comes to typing text. Typically the intent of a 
test that enters text into a field is to verify:
 1. the user can type into the field
 2. the actions associated with events get fired
 3. the application properly handles the data

None of these three things require that a driver type each character. 

By using a `Element#set!` instead of `Element#set`, Watir will:
 1. send clear via the applicable driver command to ensure the user
 can interact with the field
 2. use JavaScript to quickly fill the field with the specified text
 3. type the last character via the applicable driver command to ensure that
  appropriate events get fired
 
Depending on how much text is being entered, this could provide a huge
performance improvement without negatively impacting the effectiveness of the test.

Along with `Element#set!`, Watir now supports bang (`!`) methods with 
JavaScript implementations for:

* `Element#click!`
* `Element#double_click!`
* `Select#select!`
* `Select#select_all!`

 The clicks are unlikely to provide a performance improvement and should be used sparingly.
 The Select methods have the potential to decrease the time it takes to 
 interact with especially large select lists.
 
 Let us know what kind of performance improvements you see with these methods.
 
 <br/>

### Radio Sets
 
Input elements of `type="radio"` are not independent (clicking one radio button in a
set will de-select another radio button in the set), but until now Watir has required 
 users to treat them independently. `Element#radio_set` now allows users to 
 identify the collection of related radio buttons and interact with it
 similarly to how one currently interacts with a Select List.
 
 A `RadioSet` is initialized with a locator for any of the constituent radio buttons.
 When the `name` value is the same between radio buttons, the `RadioSet` initialized
 by their locators will be the same:
 
{% highlight ruby %}
radio_set_yes = browser.radio_set(id: "new_user_newsletter_yes")
radio_set_no = browser.radio_set(id: "new_user_newsletter_no")
radio_set_yes == radio_set_no # => true
{% endhighlight %}

A `RadioSet`:
 * Can be iterated over
 * Returns currently selected radio button with `#selected`
 * Returns text and value of the selected radio button with `#text` and `#value`
 * Returns whether the radio button with the provided label/text is
 currently selected with `#selected?(#{label})`
 * Selects the radio button with the specified label/text with: `#select(#{label})`

<br />

### Selecting drop down options

`Select#select_value` has been deprecated. `Select#select` will now allow users
to locate elements by text, label or value. Having one primary way to select
options both matches the original Watir implementation as well as making it
easier to support automatic form filling methods in Page Object libraries.

<br/>

### Input Label

Sometimes a user might want to click on the label of an input element instead of the
element itself. With the new `Input#label`, a user can now do:

{% highlight ruby %}
radio_button = browser.radio(id: "new_user_newsletter_yes")
radio_button.label.click
{% endhighlight %}

<br />

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/master/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.
