---
layout: post
title: Watir 6.10 Released!
date: 2017-11-23
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: https://titusfortner.com/
comments: true
tweet: 933758150058143744
tags: [Releases]
---

Watir 6.10.0 is now available on RubyGems! It features a new locator and other element location improvements.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", "~> 6.10"
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>


### Locating Elements by Text

Currently, the `:text` locator behaves differently depending on whether it is provided a value of `RegExp`
or `String`. A `String` value will match any text in the DOM, but a `RegExp` will only match
visible text.

We have decided to change the `RegExp` behavior to match the `String` behavior and locate
based on any text found in the DOM, and create a new locator `:visible_text` that will filter
on only text that is actually displayed on the screen. As such the `:text` locator will be effectively 
equivalent to the `#text_content` method, and the `:visible_text` locator is effectively equivalent 
to the `#text` method.

The actual change to the behavior of `text: <RegExp>` will not be made until a future release, 
but as of this release, if Watir sees that the update might be a breaking change in your code, 
it will give a deprecation warning with a suggestion to change to using `:visible_text`.

{% highlight html %}
<div>Foo<span style="display:none;">Bar</span></div>
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight ruby %}
element1 = browser.div(text: 'FooBar')
element2 = browser.div(visible_text: 'Foo')
element1 == element2 # => true

element2.text_content # => 'FooBar'
element1.text # => 'Foo'
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

### Custom Attributes

One of the impressive things Watir does is to parse the HTML5 IDL to obtain a list of all of the
valid attributes for each valid html element in the spec. This allows Watir to provide classes that
correspond to each element, allows those 
classes to be initialized with its corresponding attributes as locators, and provides those classes with
custom methods to obtain each attribute's value. 

For this release we decided to remove the restriction on only being able to locate elements with
a limited number of valid HTML5 attributes. Methods will still only be created for valid attributes, but any
locator that Watir doesn't recognize it will now assume that it is an attribute and attempt to locate an
element with it like:

{% highlight html %}
<div custom-attribute="custom"></div>
{% endhighlight %}


{% highlight ruby %}
element = browser.div(custom_attribute: 'custom')
element.attribute_value('custom-attribute') # => 'custom' 
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

As a result, people can now locate custom Angular elements without needing to use 
[watir_angular](https://github.com/titusfortner/watir_angular/), and can locate various `div` and `span`
elements that (incorrectly) use the `name` attribute.

### Selenium vs Watir Locators (Implementation)

Watir's powerful location strategy is implemented by default by converting some of the locators 
provided by the user into a complicated XPath call, and then, if necessary, filtering the results of that call
with the remaining locators. Until now, Watir has provided limited support for the 
standard Selenium locators. This release will rely more heavily on using the Selenium locators 
directly without any XPath conversion where possible (a minor performance enhancement). 
Additionally, while most of the Selenium locators can be used with any `Watir::Element` subclass and
can be mixed and matched with any other Watir locators and will accept either `String` or `RegExp` values, 
there are three Selenium supported locators that can't do any of these things. As of this release,
 `:link`, `:link_text`, and `:partial_link_text` are deprecated in favor of the new `:visible_text` 
locator which behaves like all of the other Watir locators.

<br />

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/main/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.
