---
layout: post
title: Watir 6.2 Released!
date: 2017-02-16
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: http://watirtight.com/
comments: true
categories: [Releases]
---

Watir 6.2.0 is now available on RubyGems! Several exciting new features 
have been added for this release.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", "~> 6.2"
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

### Adjacent Element Location

One of the goals of Watir is to keep users from ever having to write XPath.
Why? Because it is difficult to read and difficult to write well enough to avoid
brittleness. Until now, accessing adjacent elements required users to write XPath.

Locating Single Elements:
* `Element#parent` returns the element that exists one level up in the DOM 
from the base element.
* `Element#preceding_sibling` returns the `Element` that exists at the same level 
in the DOM immediately prior to the base element.
* `Element#following_sibling` returns the `Element` that exists at the same level 
in the DOM immediately after the base element.
* `Element#child` returns the `Element` that exists one level down in the DOM from
 the base element.

Locating Element Collections
* `Element#preceding_siblings` returns an `ElementCollection` of all elements 
that exists at the same level in the DOM immediately prior to the base element.
* `Element#following_siblings` returns an `ElementCollection` of all elements 
that exists at the same level in the DOM immediately after to the base element.
* `Element#children` returns an `ElementCollection` of all elements 
that exists one level down in the DOM from the base element.

All of these methods accept both `:index` and `:tag_name` parameters.

For instance, this code:
{% highlight ruby %}
table_cell = browser.td(text: 'My data')
grandparent_table = table.parent(tag_name: 'table', index: 2)
{% endhighlight %}
Note that index is base 1 here. Assuming this cell is in a nested table, 
then `index: 1` returns the parent `HTMLElement::Table`,
and `index: 2` returns the grandparent `HTMLElement::Table`.
Either way it skips past all of the `tr` and `tbody` elements to match
the correct `tag_name`.

No More XPath!
<br/>

### Keyword Support

If you've ever gotten an `UnknownObjectException` with an obscure locator
that's required you to hunt through a bunch of files trying to figure out
which one is broken, this is the fix. You can now set a keyword on an 
element which will show up in the error allowing for easier identification.

This code:
{% highlight ruby %}
element = browser.div(id: 'foo')
element.keyword = 'foo'
element.click
{% endhighlight %}

Now gives this error:
{% highlight ruby %}
Watir::Exception::UnknownObjectException: timed out after 1 seconds, waiting for 
#<Watir::Div: keyword: foo located: false; {:id=>"foo", :tag_name=>"div"}> to be located
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

### Behavior of `Element#wait_while_present`

As of this release, `Element#wait_while(&:present?)` and `Element#wait_while_present`
will have slightly different behaviors. The scenario is when you locate an element by a
specific selector, and while the element itself is still there, the signature by which
you located it has changed. For instance if you locate `<div class='foo'>` with
`foo = browser.div(class: foo)`, but some javascript or CSS transition happens 
to change the class name to something like `<div class='bar'>`. In one sense the element 
object is still there, but Watir way of evaluating an element is whatever element is at the 
provided address, in which case this element no longer exists. 
With this update, `Element#wait_while(&:present?)` will timeout because it continues 
to see the element object; and `Element#wait_while_present` will exit because it is 
evaluating the selector is as expected and not just the object. 
Feel free to ask us on the Watir channel in
[Selenium Slack](https://seleniumirc.herokuapp.com/) if you have specific questions 
about the reasons behind this particular implementation.
<br/>

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/master/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.

