---
layout: post
title: Watir 6.18
date: 2021-02-25
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: http://titusfortner.com
comments: true
tweet: 
tags: [Releases]
---

Watir 6.18 is now available on RubyGems. As (one of?) the last 6.x release before
Watir 7, this release adds some deprecations necessary for us to add the 
improvements we want for Watir 7. Most changes are for browser windows, with
some updates to select lists and element collections.

<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", "~> 6.18"
{% endhighlight %}

### Browser Windows
The biggest deprecation is `:index` as a window locator, and the use of indexing
(`#[]`, `#first`, `#last`) on window collections. You can read 
[the explanation here](../guides/windows/#locating-by-index-is-no-longer-supported).

Because the vast majority of the time, there is only one other window you need to
work with, there is now a `Browser#switch_window` method. It can only be used if 
there are 2 windows, and all it does is switch to the other window. This should be
sufficient for the vast majority of users:

{% highlight ruby %}
browser.switch_window
browser.button(id: 'close').click
browser.switch_window
{% endhighlight %}

Still, it's only fair to add a locator since one is being taken away.
Introducing the new `:element` locator which allows you to select a window 
based on a unique element on the page:
{% highlight ruby %}
browser.window(element: browser.div(id: 'my-element'))
{% endhighlight %}

Also, to make sure people don't continue to use indexing with an `Array` of `Window` instances,
`Browser#windows` now returns a new `WindowCollection` object with the
deprecation notices. This object will
let us do some interesting things in the future, but right off it's hooked up
to use Watir's powerful waiting functionality, so you can do things like:

{% highlight ruby %}
browser.link(id: 'open-third-window').click
browser.windows.wait_until(size: 3)
{% endhighlight %}

### Waiting for Multiple Elements

Many users do a lot of work with collections of elements instead of
specific elements, which means that many of Watir's best synchronization
functionality has not been available to them. Similar to what we did
with `WindowCollection`, we've hooked up `ElementCollection` to use
Watir's waiting features. You can now do things like:

{% highlight ruby %}
browser.elements(divs: /foo/).wait_until(size: 3)
browser.elements(divs: /foo/).wait_until(&:exists?)
browser.elements(divs: /foo/).wait_while(&:empty?)
{% endhighlight %}

To accomplish this, Watir will now relocate the collection whenever
an enumerable method is used. It shouldn't be an issue for you unless you are doing a lot of
size calls on the same collection. Indexing and iterating with `ElementCollection#to_a` won't
be affected.

### So Long Select All
There is a lot of overhead to treating a select list like it might
be a multiple select list, especially when multiple select lists are not very common. 
Way back in Watir 6.6 I had this 
[brilliant idea for optimizing Select Lists](http://watir.com/watir-6-6/#select-lists).
If we use `Select#select` for non-multiple select lists and
`Select#select_all` for multiple select lists, it makes it really easy to
only do the performance expensive things when needed.

Except...
It turns out that we couldn't easily completely stop using `#select` for multiple
select lists, and there are some advantages for automatic form filling implementations
to have everything necessary go through one method. So, `Select#select_all` and `Select#select_all!`
are now deprecated, and I apologize for making people move to them only to ask them to
move back away from them.

If you are working with a multiple select list and you want to select multiple
things, you now need to pass in what you want to be selected as an `Array`, even
if it is just one thing (like a `Regexp` instance):
{% highlight ruby %}
browser.select_list(id: 'languages').select([/ish/])
browser.select_list(id: 'languages').select([/ish/, 'Latin'])
browser.select_list(id: 'languages').select(['English', 'Swedish'])
{% endhighlight %}

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/main/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.