---
layout: post
title: Watir 7.0 Beta 1
date: 2021-03-18
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: https://titusfortner.com/
comments: true
tweet: 
tags: [Releases]
---

Watir 7.0.0.beta1 is now available on RubyGems. Watir 7 is coming! Since Watir 7.0
will require Selenium 4.0, this beta release requires at least Selenium 4 beta 2.
In spite of being pre-release versions, we recommend using these beta releases over
the latest production releases of Watir 6 and Selenium 3.

A lot of deprecated code was removed, so please run your tests with Watir 6.19.1 
and make sure you don't have any deprecation warnings before trying this beta.
Please let us know if anything is not working the way you expect it to.

<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir --pre
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", ">= 7.0.0.beta1"
{% endhighlight %}

### Updated Support
* Requires Selenium 4 beta 2 (or higher)
* Officially supports Ruby 3
* Officially supports Chromium based Microsoft Edge

### Removes All Deprecated Code
When we upgraded watir-webdriver to Watir 6.0 back in 2016, we marked a few features as deprecated
right at the beginning, but never removed the functionality.
In the past 4+ years we've added literally dozens of deprecations as we identified code that we wanted
to simplify and improve. This release finally removes all of it and encourages the behavior that
is optimal for performance and future maintenance.

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/main/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.
