---
layout: post
title: Watir 7.0 Released!
date: 2021-10-18
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: https://titusfortner.com/
comments: true
tweet: 1450221224244690945
tags: [Releases]
---

Watir 7.0.0 is now available on RubyGems. It requires Ruby 2.6+ and Selenium 4.0 which was just released last week. 
It's been a long road since Watir 6.0 was released almost 5 years ago. That version was a substantial reenvisiong
of Watir's default approach to automation, especially as it relates to Selenium. It was designed to combine
the original philosophy of Watir with the power of Selenium. Watir 7 is mostly just a much more 
stable and performant implementation of that vision. As of this release, there are no outstanding Pull Requests 
or reported bugs in our Issue Tracker!

<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", "~> 7.0"
{% endhighlight %}

### New Windows Commands

Since Watir 7.0.0.beta5 2 new commands were implemented for Windows:
`Window#minimize` and `Window#full_screen`. They both do about what you would expect,
but be careful as there is no easy way to restore the browser to the previous state. 

If you need to restore your window to previous size and position, you might need code like:
{% highlight ruby %}
original_size = @browser.window.size
original_position = @browser.window.position
@browser.window.maximize
@browser.window.resize_to(*original_size)
@browser.window.resize_to(*original_size)
{% endhighlight %}


### Changes from 6.19

A quick recap of the work that was done in the beta releases:

[Watir 7.0.0.beta1](http://watir.com/watir-7-0-beta1/):
This removed all the deprecations and provided a clean slate for udpates

[Watir 7.0.0.beta2](http://watir.com/watir-7-0-beta2/): 
This added the features we couldn't use with the deprecated code and/or without Selenium 4.

[Watir 7.0.0.beta3](http://watir.com/watir-7-0-beta3/):
This was just bug fixes and some changes in defaults.


See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/main/CHANGES.md)
for the complete history of updates.