---
layout: post
title: Watir 7.0 Beta 3
date: 2021-05-05
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: https://titusfortner.com/
comments: true
tweet: 1390037722144854016
tags: [Releases]
---

Watir 7.0.0.beta3 is now available on RubyGems. This update includes bug fixes 
and things that were intended for the last release for Capabilities but overlooked.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir --pre
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", ">= 7.0.0.beta3"
{% endhighlight %}

### Unhandled Prompt Behavior

We documented in [the capabilities guide](http://watir.com/guides/capabilities/#:~:text=unhandled_prompt_behavior)
the reason for why Watir is going to override the default behavior for Alert Handling.
Except we forgot to implement it. It's non-backward compatible, but we're in beta.
You must send a command to accept or dismiss the Alert if you are rescuing the exception.
This will allow users to query whether an alert is present without changing the state
of the system.

### Driver Timeouts

The `Selenium::WebDriver::Timeouts` class has always converted script timeout, page load timeout,
and implicit wait timeouts from seconds (what the user enters) to milliseconds (what w3c spec expects).
When support for setting timeout values was added to the capabilities, it did not convert
from seconds to milliseconds. Watir now handles timeouts set in capabilities in a special way.

This is now deprecated:

{% highlight ruby %}
opts = {timeouts: {page_load: 11000, script: 12000}}
browser = Watir::Browser.new(options: opts)
{% endhighlight %}

Instead do this:

{% highlight ruby %}
opts = {page_load_timeout: 11, script_timeout: 12}}
browser = Watir::Browser.new(options: opts)
{% endhighlight %}

Note that Watir will now raise an exception if attempting to set an implicit wait
because that conflicts with Watir's automatic synchronization.


### Vendor Capabilities

Watir was not properly handling valid vendor extension capabilities like `sauce:options` and
`selenoid:options`. This has been fixed.

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/main/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.