---
layout: post
title: Watir 7.0 Beta 1
date: 2021-03-26
author: Titus Fortner
author_url: https://titusfortner.com/
comments: true
tweet: 
tags: [Releases]
---

Watir 7.0.0.beta2 is now available on RubyGems. This is all the additions and optimizations that were dependent on 
removing the deprecated code in Beta 1. Watir Repo now has zero outstanding bugs! The Issues list contains 2 optimizations
and 2 feature requests which we may or may not get to before Watir 7.0 is released. Expect production release of 
Watir 7.0 as soon as Selenium 4.0 is released.
<!--more-->

***To install:***

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install watir --pre
{% endhighlight %}

***or in your Gemfile:*** 

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "watir", ">= 7.0.0.beta2"
{% endhighlight %}

### Setting Values on a Page

One of the coolest features implemented by Page Object gems is the ability to use Watir to automatically
fill out a form based on Element type. This is an example of what it looks like with Watir 6   
[in WatirDrops](https://github.com/titusfortner/watir_drops/):

{% highlight ruby %}
  case watir_element
  when Watir::Radio
    watir_element.set if val
  when Watir::CheckBox
    val ? watir_element.set : watir_element.clear
  when Watir::Select
    watir_element.select val
  when Watir::Button
    watir_element.click
  when Watir::TextField, Watir::TextArea
    watir_element.set val if val
  else
    watir_element.click if val
  end
{% endhighlight %}

Some take `true` or `false`, some take `String` or `Regexp` or even `Array`.

It makes more sense for Watir to create a standard interface for this interaction than to 
require Page Object gems to implement it. The `#set` method was originally intended for this role, 
but determining how the arguments would be used was never fully implemented.

This release simplifies all of that by baking it into `#set`. 
The above code can now be implemented with:

{% highlight ruby %}
  watir_element.set val
{% endhighlight %}

Even more interesting, there is a generic `Element#set` method. You don't even have to specify
the element subclass any more. If you have a generic `Watir::Element` that matches 
`<input type="checkbox" id="checky" />`, calling `#set` on it with `true` value, will now automatically
determine that it is actually a `CheckBox` element and will ensure that it is selected (based on the `true` input).
Obviously, it is better and more efficient for the user to set it, but it is no longer required.

### More Select Lists

Watir 6 had two methods for selecting options. `Select#select` would select
options based on text or label and `Select#select_value` would select options based on value.
The code was also a little messy because we assumed everything might be a multiple select list, which
impacted performance a bit.

The first fix was to combine selecting by text, label and value into the `#select` method.
This allows us to have the single common interface aliased to `#set` (as described in previous section), 
and the likelihood of the value of one option matching the text of another option is relatively small,
but more on this below.

To deal with multiple select lists, we first decided to have people 
use the short-lived `Select#select_all` method. Except this moved us 
away from the single common interface for all inputs that we want. Independently,
we decided to support passing in an `Array` instance to `#select` as a way to indicate
that multiple values should be selected, and it just made sense to remove `#select_all` in favor of
toggling multiple select list behavior based on whether the argument received is an `Array`.
So if you have a multiple select list and want to match multiple options with one command, put it in an `Array`.

{% highlight ruby %}
browser.goto 'watir.com/examples/simple_form.html'

country_dropdown = browser.select(id: 'languages')
country_dropdown.select [/an/] # An Array, so only first matching selected
country_dropdown.selected?('1') # => true
country_dropdown.selected?('3') # => true
{% endhighlight %}

If there is an issue with the value being passed in matching on a value or a text item that you did not
intend, you can now be explicit about what gets matched.

{% highlight ruby %}
browser.goto 'watir.com/examples/simple_form.html'

country_dropdown = browser.select(id: 'country')
country_dropdown.select(text: 'Denmark')
country_dropdown.selected?('1') # => true
country_dropdown.select(value: '2')
country_dropdown.selected?('Norway') # => true
country_dropdown.select(label: 'Sverige')
country_dropdown.selected?('Sweden') # => true
{% endhighlight %}

Finally, we added the ability to check if an option is selected in the same manner that
we are selecting it, so now `:value` is supported in addition to `:text` and `:label`

For everything about working with Select Lists, read our [Dropdown Elements Guide](/guides/dropdowns)

### Selenium Support Classes

Alex implemented two non-automation-specific features for Selenium (Logger and Guards) that are being used by Watir.
Maybe these will eventually be put into their own gems.

In Watir 6.6 we pretty much just copy/pasted the Logger implementation from Selenium and then
added things to it. The Selenium Logger was updated in v4 to include all of the Watir functionality,
and allows other projects to extend it.

`WatirSpec::Guards` has been a part of the WatirSpec project from the beginning (when Jari created them
in 2009), and was based on code in rubyspec. 
They are very powerful and allow executing or not executing pretty much any
block of code in the specs. Unfortunately, it was extremely challenging to keep the watirspecs updated 
as bugs were fixed and w3c capabilities were implemented by different browsers. Selenium Guards
are tied into RSpec metadata. Rather than running or not running blocks of code, each spec has a single
set of guards. The killer feature is that guarded code will execute as pending, so if the bug has been
fixed the test will fail and we can update everything accordingly.

See the [Changelog](https://github.com/watir/watir/blob/main/CHANGES.md) 
for the complete history of updates.